We obviously want to pass some feedback to the user
and how can we do that?
I want to dispatch an action when we start with this whole process to basically for example show a
spinner and then once we're done to hide it. For this, I'll add new action types here, I'll export a
const and I'll name it UI I because it's a pure UI task, start loading
and then we can decide what we want to do on a per screen basis,
so here, the identifier is going to be UI start loading and I'll add a second one which should be UI
stop loading.
So these are two new actions,
I'll also create action creators to basically have the same pattern throughout the app application, here I'll
then import these from action types, so the two action types I just created, going to import
UI start loading and UI stop loading and then I'm going to export a constant here which I'll name UI
start loading written like this.
I expect no arguments but I will return a javascript object here which is just the action we're creating, so
the action object where the type will be
UI start loading, so the type we're importing from action types and that I'm going to copy that
and add it below that UI stop loading is the name now and type is UI stop loading.
Now what's the idea behind that?
The idea is that we can use that in the reducer to switch some property that we then connect to one of
our screens to then show a spinner,
this might look super verbose but is actually a very elegant way of handling such a loading state
when using redux.
So I'm going to add a new reducer and I'm naming it ui.js because it's related or it's important
for UI related tasks and in there, I first of all will import my action types from actions action
types, the actions I want to import are of course the same as before, UI start
and UI stop loading and then in here, I'll also initialize my state with an initial state object.
Here I simply want to have
an isLoading prop
and you can name this whatever you want which I set to false initially because we're not loading by
default, then I'll add my reducer function where I get the state that starts with the initial state and
then I also get the action I receive and then in that reducer function,
I of course switch the action type and then I got my case UI start loading and I got my case
UI stop loading and I got my default case.
Now there I will just return the state,
I can already write this, in the other cases like here UI start loading, there I will return an object where
I copy the old state even though here we only have one property but still, it's a good pattern
and then I will set isLoading to true here
and I'm going to copy that to my stop loading case where I set isLoading to false. And with that I can
simply export the reducer function as the default of this file.
Now in configure store where we combine reducers, I will import this new reducer, the UI reducer from reducers
UI
and I will add it to combine reducers, give it an identifier of UI, the UI reducer
and with that we can access its state and it's hooked into redux.
Finally I'll go into the index.js file in the actions folder and export my UI actions here,
so from ./UI, I will export UI start and UI stop loading.
Now we can use that in the rest of our application, like here in the places.js
file, here I will first of all import these new actions,
so from the index file, I will import UI start and UI stop loading and I will dispatch
UI start loading
right before we send the first
fetch request. This is where I use the dispatch argument I'm getting which is a function which I execute
to then execute UI start loading as a function and therefore send this action and I want to stop
loading in all error cases,
so for example here I'll wrap console log error with curly braces so that I can also execute the dispatch
UI stop loading because even though we got an error, we don't want to show the spinner anymore,
the user should be able to interact again.
So this is what I do here and what I'll do in the second error block too
but then of course we also have this success case here at the end where we were finally done, there
I will also dispatch UI stop loading because there, we clearly also don't want to show a spinner
anymore.
So with that, we got ways to manipulate the state,
now we need that state information in our screens. For that,
let's go to the share place screen which is where we have this share place button in the end
and there I want to replace this button with a spinner
if we are loading. For that, I first of all need to connect this to my state,
so I'll add a new const at the bottom,
map state to props where I get the redux state as an argument and where I then return my mapping object
and where I have the isLoading prop which I map to state,
then UI,
this was the identifier we assigned to UI reducer in combined reducers, in the UI
and there we have isLoading. Now I need to pass maps state to props instead of null to the connect function
here
and with that we can use the isLoading prop. Now a first simple check can be to either show the button
or the loading text,
so in the render function I'll add a submit button variable which is null initially and then I will check
if this props isLoading is true
because if it is, then I want to set submit button here to loading.
And by default of course it shouldn't be null,
that's a mistake,
it should be this button here at the bottom,
so I'll set it equal to this button here, like that.
So that's our default,
the button I just cut out from the jsx code at the bottom,
the alternative is of course loading but that's of course not correct,
you could now render a string but it should be a text element where we just say loading of course, like
this, text for that needs to be imported at the top but it is.
So that's the text element,
now with that, we can render this at the bottom, I wrap my button with this view here, I'll do so again with just
my auto-formatting tool turn this into a self-closing tag and in-between the view, I will output my
submit button.
Now let's save this file and let's try it out,
I'll go back to iOS and reload the app there,
let's quickly log in as always, share the place, pick an image from the camera roll, a different image
maybe this one,
let's locate ourselves, testing again
and now let's click share the place. Now you see it becomes loading and it should stay loading as long
as this is well
submitting the image. So this takes a while because this image is very big but then it jumps back to share
the place.
So this is working great but I want to show a real spinner and if we're back on the react native docs, we can
see that on our components, there is this activity indicator component we can use and that's just what
I want to use.
It is a component we can use that will simply render a spinner that uses the default platform style so
it will differentiate between iOS and Android,
so activity indicator is a component we can use out of the box in a react native app
and here are the various tools you can use for configuring it.
So let's simply import that from react native in the share place screen, activity indicator, let's copy
that and instead of my loading text, I want to use that,
so here I will replace text with activity indicator as a self-closing tag and that is all I want to do
for now.
Let's now see how this looks like, if I reload my application here again
and I do choose to share someplace here too,
let's click share the place and now we get this activity indicator here.
Let's now do the same on Android, so I'm going to reload here whilst iOS is working,
let's take a photo here,
maybe this one,
locate ourselves, testing from Android again
and let's click share the place here too and here you see, you get the Android style loader and here
it's much faster
simply because the image is much slower,
the ones on the iOS simulator are really huge. Now on firebase,
we can confirm that all of that was uploaded,
I uploaded the Android thing twice,
the one from iOS once and we got the nice activity indicator.